#Mynamar Electrification

This work was submitted to the Department of State/Booz Allen hackathan studying population and geographic data for the electrification of Myanmar primarily through solar photovoltaics at the household and minigrid scales. As motivation for the study, a video put together by the World Bank was shown to participants discussing the ~70% of the population with nearly no reliable source of electricity and the ramifications of living under those conditions to their livelihoods, health, and well being. The teams were tasked with creating an data driven models for both investors and citizens of Myanmar to deliver affordable and sustainable access to electricity for the locals. The main challenge is a lack of relevant business models and low data density relevant to implementing solar in these regions. In other words, no training data exists that properly reflects the local population and the effects of electrification on their well being, education levels, health, and increased participation in economic activity. 

Initial exploratory data analysis of the population via census data showed a high correlation between largely rural locations and reliance on consumables such as candles, generators, and kerosene for household lighting. By cross-referencing these townships with the locaions of major economic centers in Myanmar, we were able to pinpoint regions of potentially high ROI both for the investors and the locals, for whom access to electricity could potentially improve their ability to participate in the local economic centers. Our group which was more focused on equitability and engagement with existing NGOs did not produce a coherent single model, but in lieu of that, I proposed using a more Bayesian approach with an small scale implementation over regions where we had the highest potential for interaction with NGOs to help with data analysis and interaction with the local tribes/villages/townships. An initial model would be trained on the solar electrification of Somalia and Nigeria looking to similar data features such as light consumption and household density per township, but subsequent successes would be measured by updating our model through small scale penetration of photovoltaics into these regions. A second phase could be implemented once sufficient data from Myanmar electrification was acquired.

The cost benefit analysis requires any region's electrification via solar be cheaper than both their current means of light and power consumption and cheaper than electrification via connecting the township to the closest electrical grids. Electricity is fairly cheap in Myanmar and multi-billion dollar plans for constructing hydroelectric dams are already underway, though it is yet unclear what the target populations or industries are for the increased power generation in these highly localized river regions. Access to this power by the locals who need it most would be unlikely due to additional infrastructure costs and power losses at large distances. 
